[0:01 Section 1: Four types of analytics] 
We distinguish four types of analytics, actually being descriptive and diagnostic analytics close together. So when we talk about descriptive analytics, we first of all ask ourselves the question, what happened? So this is really about the describing the past and understanding what's going on in the data. Diagnostics goes a step further to answer the question of why did it happen. So it goes deeper and tries to discover root causes. When we talk about predictive analytics, then we try to look into the future and try to find an answer to the question of what will happen. Finally, prescriptive analytics is the most powerful approach because it does not only try to look into the future, but actually also goes into the question of how can we make it happen. So it gives prescriptive guidance what should be done in order to achieve a specific goal. Let me give you some examples from sales analytics. So assume we analyze product sales and we have a data set. And now the first thing in descriptive analytics we would ask ourselves is, how often was product X sold in December 2020? This is a simple query. Assuming that we have the data in place, we will quickly get an answer to this question. Now let's assume that there is an increase of sales of product X in December 2023. So we may ask the question, why is there an increase? So we may explore the data for patterns that explain us the reason for this increased product sales. Now if you want to look into the future, we may ask ourselves what will be the sales of product X in February 2024. So this is where we try to leverage historic data in order to forecast what will happen next year in February. Now prescriptive analytics, as we said, gives prescriptive advice or guidance. And if you now want to ask a question like how much raw materials should be procured to ensure we can meet product X demand in 2024,we really not only forecast how much we will sell, we actually describe what we need in order to deliver to this demand here with the example of raw materials. It is absolutely fundamental whenever you get a data set in your hand, that the first thing you do is to analyze it from a descriptive point of view. This is why we leverage descriptive statistics as a very established means of techniques that you can apply to get an understanding of your data.

[3:28 Section 2: Descriptive Analysis and Key metrics: Mean, media, mode; Quartiles, standard Deviation, Variance] 
The idea of doing exploratory data analysis by descriptive statistics is actually a very old one. It's more than 50 years that John Tukey with his seminal book on exploratory data analysis proposed this concept. He argued that it's absolutely fundamental that we should analyze data sets to summarize their main characteristics. He encouraged statisticians to explore the data and possibly formulate hypothesis that could lead to new data collection and experiments. He also came up with the box plot that I will introduce in a moment as a very efficient compressed means to provide an overview of a set of data.


So what are descriptive statistics you have heard that in your statistics course for sure? Just a recap. It's a summarization of features of a collection of information given data. You can do a univariate descriptive statistics where you always focus on a single attribute, or you can do multivariance descriptive statistics where you look at multiple attributes at once. It's really important before you jump into applying some fancy analytical technique to look into the descriptive statistics to understand the data. The very basic thing is to clarify the data types, but then within the data types or after the data typing, if you want, you can start doing some basic descriptive statistics. 

Three very basic descriptive statistics are the mean, the median and the mode. These are three kinds of computing the average of an attribute. So the mean of a set of numbers is the sum of all numbers divided by the number of numbers. Here is the example leading to 15. The median of a set of numbers is the middle value in the ordered list. of numbers and the mode of a set of numbers is the element that occurs most often in the collection. Another useful metric are the quartiles. They divide the list of numbers into quarters. Here's two simple examples. When you have this row of numbers 2, 4, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, Q1 would be 4 because 25% of the data is. Below that, then you have Q2, and Q2, by the way, is always the median, that's 5 in that case, and Q3 would be 7, whereas 75% of the data is captured. So the same for the other example.

Very important metrics are variance in standard deviation. The basic idea is that beside the mean value, you may also be interested in the variability. That means how much disperse the data is in the relation to the mean. So variance is a measure of variability. It's calculated by taking the average of square deviations from the V. Standard deviation, is nothing else than the square root of the variance. And it tells you that at the end, low standard deviation means that data are clustered around the mean, and high standard deviation indicates data are more spread out. In this example, you see here with the dogs, a mean value of 394 millimeters and standard deviation of 147 millimeters, showcasing that there's quite some differences between these dogs. 

[7:37 Section 3: Boxplot] 
A very practical tool that is heavily used in descriptive and exploratory data analysis are the so-called box plots. It's not only a metric, it's a compressed form of visualization, multiple descriptive statistical parameters. It was invented by John Tukey in the 70s. Here's an example of sleep time over the week and obviously you see that there's some days where you definitely have more sleep than another sun. I will show you in a second how these box plots are computed and how they can be interpreted. So the idea of the box plot is that you have an interval in the core, the box if you want, that just captures the quartiles, the median of all values, the median of the first half of the values, and the median of the second half of the values. Then you have this IQR and around this IQR box you will capture the maximum and the minimum. The maximum is the greatest value which is computed as Q3 plus IQR multiplied with 1.5 and the same for the minimum. And then there's obviously some outliers that are beyond these two values. These are typically visualized as points and that is just happening if you have values outside the minimum and maximum spectrum.