[00:00 Section 1: Sensors and Signals]
Let me quickly recap the concept of sensors because sensors are the devices that produce the information, the signal that we process. So sensors have been defined as devices that produce a measurable change and output to a known input stimulus.The input stimulus can be a physical stimulus like temperature or pressure, or a concentration of chemical or biochemical material, or obviously it can be a human activity, such as the heart activity. The output signal is typically proportional to the input variable, and we call this the measurers. So sensors have been introduced as transducers. So the incoming property to be measured is introduced by the sensor into a signal and we specifically talk about biosignals here as we measure human activity.


In general, signals have been introduced as functions that convey information about the phenomenon. This can be any phenomenon that you can imagine. Typically, we look at signals as functions over time derive from the physical world. Signals represent any observable change in quantity over space or time, and this is also how we can observe human activities over time and capture this in the form of biosignals. Here is a very simple example of a signal and a sensor that you may know. So in this simple example, a passive infrared sensor detects a moving human presence and on this basis produces a signal. And if this simple example you already see that the signal itself requires processing, it requires interpretation in order to make meaning out of it. So for example, trigger that a light gets on or an alert gets triggered if a human being is recognized.

[02:20 Biosignals and Biosignal-adaptive systems]
So biosignals have been introduced as autonomous signals produced by living organisms, energetically measurable and physical quantities using different types of sensors. And this is now where we go into the detail of this lecture of biosignoid processing. We as humans send messages. Our activities of the cells and cell layers generate measurable physical quantities, such as, for example, temperature, but also energy. On a very high level we introduced biosignals along different dimensions, kinematic, optical, chemical, electrical, acoustic and thermal biosignals. As mentioned earlier, in this lecture on biosignal processing, we will focus on optical and electrical biosignals and introduce a specific focus on the human activities of the heart and the eyes


Finally, let me quickly recap the conceptualization of biosignal-based adaptive systems that have been introduced in the physical lecture. So we design or we define biosign adaptive systems as adaptive systems that build on biosignals. In general, adaptive systems follow the approach of capturing the context and on this basis triggering adaptations. In our specific sense, we record biosignals as contextual information. We process these biosignals. We perform biosignal modeling, something that we will discuss in the next lecture. And finally, we trigger adaptations on this basis. Biosignal-based adaptive systems are not purely technical systems. It is essential to consider the interplay between the user, the task, and the context in which this happens, and to follow a human interloop approach when designing adaptive, interactive technology. In that sense, we introduce biosignal-based adaptive systems as socio-technical systems that process information from humans, but also give something back to the humans, and this is considered as a kind of continuous loop.


[4:54 Biosignal Value Chain] 
We won't have enough time in this lecture to go into the deep details of the entire biosignal value chain, as I call it. The key message here is that it's actually a pretty complex value chain from the sensor to the recording producing raw data, then processing the raw data to produce higher level information, that you then again feed into a modeling process to explore patterns or, for example, classify psychological states. The recording part is out of scope of this lecture. This is where, for example, amplification needs to happen to strengthen the signal, where also filtering needs to happen to clean up the sensor data and also digital conversion activities need to happen. We will focus in the following on the processing and modeling steps. So this means that we try to move so-called artifacts from the data, but more specifically we try to discover events in the data. So for example, when we talk about hard activity, we want to discover hard beats in order to derive higher level information on the beat detection, which is an event. that we detect into a more detailed event analysis, derivation of higher level features, as well as then feeding that, for example, into a classification procedure. The general biosignal value chain is always the same, but obviously depending on the sensor and the signal that you want to process, there's a lot of variation and specific activities that need to be performed.